JUDY WOODRUFF: A new
flash point in the tense
and fraying alliance
between the United States
and Turkey, after Turkish
security forces attacked
protesters during
President Erdogan's
recent visit to Washington, D.C.
Hari Sreenivasan has our report.
And a warning: Images in this
report may disturb some viewers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It's been
one month since attackers
launched into protesters outside
the Turkish ambassador's
residence in Washington.
Now D.C. officials have issued
warrants on assault charges.
Police Chief Peter Newsham:
PETER NEWSHAM, Acting
Washington, D.C., Police
Chief: We all saw the
violence that was perpetrated
against peaceful demonstrators
here in Washington,
D.C., and it's just
something we're not going
to tolerate.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
demonstrators had gathered
at a park shortly after
Turkey's president,
Recep Tayyip Erdogan,
met with President Trump
at the White House.
Then, as Erdogan arrived
at the ambassador's
residence, trouble started.
Video showed security
guards and supporters teeing
off on the protesters.
D.C. police officers tried to
separate and calm the crowd,
but nine people were hurt.
Two people were arrested
that day, and two more
were apprehended by
U.S. Marshals yesterday.
Now there are 12 new warrants
for Turkish security officers.
Most, if not all, returned
home after the attack.
Two Canadians are
also being sought.
It's unclear why they
allegedly joined the melee.
Chief Newsham is calling for
the suspects to surrender
and not fight extradition.
PETER NEWSHAM: If you
are a law-abiding person,
and you feel like you
didn't do anything wrong,
then please present yourself
here to answer to these charges.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Erdogan responded to the
charges, and said the
demonstrators were associated
with Kurdish militants
who've been engaged in a
long insurgency against
the Turkish government.
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkish
President (through translator):
Of course we're going the fight
this on legal and
political grounds.
What kind of law is this?
If my security guards are not
going to protect me, why would
I bring them with me to America?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Meanwhile,
Erdogan's role in all of
this remains a question.
After the incident, The
New York Times examined
the video and spotted
Erdogan's head of security
leaning into the president's
car, and then speaking into
his earpiece, just before three
guards ran toward
the protesters.
At the time, the State
Department said it
communicated -- quote
-- "concerns" to Turkey
over the confrontation, and
today said -- quote - - "We
will weigh additional actions."
STEVEN COOK, Council on Foreign
Relations: President Erdogan's
security team irresponsible,
unprofessional and violent.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Steven Cook
is a senior fellow with the
Council on Foreign Relations
in Washington.
He says relations between
Washington and Ankara are as
bad as they have ever been.
STEVEN COOK: Charging President
Erdogan's security team
with crimes is going to add
another element of tension
between the two countries.
This tension will no doubt be
used by the Turkish leadership
to advance their own political
agenda, which is only
going to cause raw feelings
here in Washington.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The U.S.
and Turkey are already at odds
over Kurdish forces fighting
in Syria.
And the Turks have demanded the
U.S. extradite exiled cleric
Fethullah Gulen for allegedly
organizing last
summer's failed coup.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.